Walk back if we take a look at our Fibonacci function that we created this is what we're doing.
If I was looking for a Fibonacci number of 7 using recursion Well we'd have to run all these calculations
recursively and all of this as well.
And you can see here what's happening right.
Look where we're calculating Fibonacci of one.
We have this function running one two three four five times calculating the same thing.
What about Fibonacci of two.
Again look at all these calculations that are being repeated what about 3 and you see here where the
triangles are overlapping where we're calculating 3 over where we calculated fit 2 and Fibonacci of
1 as well.
And then if we keep going to pure Bonacci number four there again repeated tasks triangles over triangles
and then finally Fibonacci of six or five.
We see that once again we just have more repeated calculations.
This does not look efficient does it.
And that's what we saw in the previous video.
This is what we're doing with our calculations.
But if you notice here with dynamic programming we can optimize this and use memoization to say hey
calculate Fibonacci of seven go recursively down to 6 2 5 2 4 2 3 2 2 and also 2 1.
And now as we go back remember as we start to return the statements and we go to five of two or five
or three or four before because we've already calculated these numbers we can actually return a memorized
version so that all these calculations are no longer needed.
Why.
Because two three four and five every time we ask for it in this case we've already calculated on the
left hand side so we can use the cached or memorized version so that these we can just ask the memorized
function to just give for us.
We avoid all these calculations look so simple that looks and I'm going to show you in the next video
how we actually implement this with the Fibonacci sequence.
But to demonstrate to you that this is not only just this problem that we can use dynamic programming
on.
I have a set of rules.
One is that you can't think of dynamic programming as combining divide and conquer.
What we did with the tree like structure of Bonacci number where we use recursion and using reuse that
is cashing in memoization with recursion to get savings in performance and use dynamic programming.
And these are the steps that are like to follow to see if a problem can use dynamic programming to optimize
it.
We first ask can the problem be divided into subproblems that is.
Is it a tree like structure where each problem is broken down into smaller problems into smaller problems
and do small problems which usually indicates a recursive solution.
Again something that we're very familiar with from our previous videos and now the third question is
really important because you can have tree like structures that don't have repetitive subproblems.
But if these subproblems are repetitive that is that we're doing the same calculation over and over
in the subproblems.
Well if the answer is yes then we can memorize these subproblems and once we do that we see tremendous
benefits and these benefits are used all over computer science to improve performance so that the fifth
step should be to demand a raise from your boss.
If you've implemented this because you've just saved so many calculations so much time complexity I
want you to think like this instead of being intimidated by the confusing name that is dynamic programming
you just need to know when a problem can use this technique.
And at least some problems for you after this section to practice on but you want to just follow this
pattern.
When a problem has solutions composed of solutions to the same problem with smaller and smaller inputs
each problem is solved only once and the result of each subproblem is stored in a table like a cache
such as a hash table like we've done in the previous video.
For future reference we can use this table to obtain the original solution of a repeated problem.
Enough talk.
I think it's time for us to implement our own memorization with Fibonacci number if you want to challenge
yourself.
Go ahead and see if it coded yourself otherwise.
And the next video I'm going to show you how to improve our terrible performing Fibonacci function and
to go over and I'll see in that one.